# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic
Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

### Added

- **[BREAKING]** The following folders are now excluded by default from both the
  `files` and `output` arrays:

  - `.git/`
  - `.hg/`
  - `.svn/`
  - `.wireit/`
  - `CVS/`
  - `node_modules/`

  In the highly unusual case that you need to reference a file in one of those
  folders, set `allowUsuallyExcludedPaths: true` to remove all default excludes.

### Fixed

- Fixed `Invalid string length` and `heap out of memory` errors when writing the
  fingerprint files for large script graphs.

## [0.7.3] - 2022-11-14

### Added

- Added `"service": true` setting, which is well suited for long-running
  processes like servers. A service is started either when it is invoked directly,
  or when another script that depends on it is ready to run. A service is stopped
  when all scripts that depend on it have finished, or when Wireit is exited.

- Added `"cascade": false` setting to dependencies.

  By default, the fingerprint of a script includes the fingerprints of its
  dependencies. This means a script will re-run whenever one of its dependencies
  re-runs, even if the output produced by the dependency didn't actually change.

  Now, if a dependency is annotated with `"cascade": false`, then the
  fingerprint of that dependency will no longer be included in the script's own
  fingerprint. This means a script won't neccessarily re-run just because a
  dependency re-ran — though Wireit will still always run the dependency first
  if it is not up-to-date.

  Using `"cascade": false` can result in faster builds thanks to fewer re-runs,
  but it is very important to specify all of the input files generated by the
  dependency which the script depends on in the `files` array.

  Example:

  ```json
  {
    "wireit": {
      "build": {
        "command": "tsc",
        "files": ["tsconfig.json", "src/**/*.ts"],
        "output": "lib/**",
      },
      "bundle": {
        "command": "rollup -c",
        "files": ["rollup.config.json", "lib/**/*.js", "!lib/test"],
        "output": "dist/bundle.js",
        "dependencies": {
          [
            "script": "build",
            "cascade": false
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### Changed

- Added string length > 0 requirement to the `command`, `dependencies`, `files`,
  `output`, and `packageLocks` properties in `schema.json`.

### Fixed

- Fixed memory leak in watch mode.

- Added graceful recovery from `ECONNRESET` and other connection errors when
  using GitHub Actions caching.

- Fixed bug where a leading slash on a `files` or `output` path was incorrectly
  interpreted as relative to the filesystem root, instead of relative to the
  package, in watch mode.

## [0.7.2] - 2022-09-25

### Fixed

- Fixed issue where a redundant extra run could be triggered in watch mode when
  multiple scripts were watching the same file(s).

### Changed

- stdout color output is now forced when Wireit is run with a text terminal
  attached.

- Default number of scripts run in parallel is now 2x logical CPU cores instead
  of 4x.

## [0.7.1] - 2022-06-27

### Fixed

- 503 "Service Unavailable" HTTP errors returned by the GitHub Actions caching
  service are no longer fatal. Instead, caching will be skipped for the
  remainder of the Wireit run, similar to how 429 "Too Many Requests" errors are
  handled.

## [0.7.0] - 2022-06-17

### Removed

- [**Breaking**] stdout/stderr are no longer replayed. Only if a script is
  actually running will it now produce output to those streams.

## [0.6.1] - 2022-06-15

### Fixed

- Fix out of date files from `0.6.0`.

## [0.6.0] - 2022-06-15

### Added

- You can now pass arbitrary extra arguments to a script by setting them after a
  double-dash, e.g. `npm run build -- --verbose`.

- If you're using Yarn Berry, you can now invoke the shared instance of wireit
  at the root of your workspace from any package's `scripts` entry:

  ```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "yarn run -TB wireit"
  },
  ```

### Fixed

- Yarn Berry now supports watch mode.

### Changed

- [**Breaking**] Watch mode is now set using `--watch` instead of `watch`, e.g.
  `npm run build --watch`. Using the old `watch` style argument will error until
  an upcoming release, at which point it will be sent to the underlying script,
  consistent with how npm usually behaves.

- Scripts are no longer skipped as fresh if any `output` files were changed,
  added, or removed since the previous run.

- In order for a script to be skipped as fresh, it is now required to specify
  the `output` files. Previously only input `files` were required.

## [0.5.0] - 2022-05-31

### Added

- It is now possible to define a script that only defines `files`. This can be
  useful for organizing groups of shared input files that multiple scripts can
  depend on, such as configuration files.

### Changed

- [**Breaking**] Setting `"output"` on a script that does not have a `"command"`
  is now an error.

- The internal `.wireit/*/state` file was renamed to `.wireit/*/fingerprint`.
  Should have no effect.

- If a script does not define a `"command"`, then fingerprints, lock files, and
  cache entries are no longer written to the `.wireit` directory. This change
  should have no user-facing effect apart from a very minor performance
  improvement.

- Analysis errors encountered in watch mode are no longer fatal. If any
  `package.json` file that was encountered in the failed analysis was modified,
  a new analysis attempt will start.

- Performance improvements to watch mode. Re-analysis of configuration now only
  occurs when a relevant `package.json` file was modified, instead of if any
  file was modified. Filesystem watchers are now re-used across iterations
  unless they are changed by a config update.

## [0.4.3] - 2022-05-15

### Changed

- Install size decreased from 25MB to 2.4MB.

- Total transitive dependencies decreased from 93 to 29.

- New GitHub Actions caching implementation. Should be a drop-in replacement.

### Fixed

- Fixed error formatting for a missing dependency in the same package
  that had a colon in its name. We were drawing the squiggle only under the
  part of the dependency name after the first colon, as though it was a
  cross-package dependency, and the part before the colon was a relative
  path.

## [0.4.2] - 2022-05-13

### Added

- Added `WIREIT_FAILURES` environment variable that controls what happens when a
  script fails (meaning it returned with a non-zero exit code) with the
  following options:

  - `no-new` (default): Allow running scripts to continue, but don't start new
    ones.
  - `continue`: Allow running scripts to continue, and start new ones as long as
    all of their dependencies succeeded.
  - `kill`: Immediately kill running scripts, and don't start new ones.

### Changed

- Default failure mode changed from `continue` to `no-new` (see above for
  definitions).

- A distinct event is now logged when a script is killed intentionally by
  Wireit.

## [0.4.1] - 2022-05-10

### Fixed

- The `Running command` log message now prints immediately before the child
  process is spawned. Previously it would print even if it was blocked by
  parallelism contention.

- Rate limit errors from GitHub Actions are no longer fatal. If it occurs, a
  message will be logged, and caching will be disabled for the remainder of the
  current Wireit process.

### Changed

- If two or more scripts depend on the same invalid config, or if they both
  depend on a script that fails, we now only log about it once.

- We continue analyzing package.json files past the first error so that we
  can show as many potential issues as we can find.

- Added an IDE analyzer interface, so that the VSCode extension can use the
  same logic as the CLI for finding diagnostics.

## [0.4.0] - 2022-05-06

### Changed

- [**Breaking**] A leading `/` on a `files` or `output` glob pattern is now
  interpreted relative to the current package directory. Previously it was
  interpreted relative to the root of the filesystem. In the case of `files`
  (but not `output`), it is still possible to reference files outside of the
  current package with a pattern like `../foo`.

- [**Breaking**] It is now an error to try and cache an `output` file that is
  not contained within the current package.

- Starting to improve error messages by drawing squiggles underneath the
  specific part of the `package.json` file that's in error.

### Fixed

- [**Breaking**] If two or more entirely separate `npm run` commands are run for
  the same Wireit script, only one of them will now be allowed to run at a time,
  while the others wait their turn. This restriction is removed if `output` is
  set to an empty array.

## [0.3.1] - 2022-04-30

### Fixed

- Fixed `replaceAll is not a function` errors when using Node 14 on Windows.

## [0.3.0] - 2022-04-29

### Changed

- The minimum Node version is now `14.14.0` instead of `16.0.0`.

## [0.2.1] - 2022-04-27

### Fixed

- Added support for running scripts with [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/),
  [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/), and older versions of npm.

## [0.2.0] - 2022-04-26

### Added

- Added support for caching on GitHub Actions. Use the
  `google/wireit@setup-github-actions-caching/v1` action to enable.

### Changed

- [**Breaking**] In the `files` array, matching a directory now matches all
  recursive contents of that directory.

- [**Breaking**] The order of `!exclude` glob patterns in the `files` and
  `output` arrays is now significant. `!exclude` patterns now only apply to the
  patterns that precede it. This allows a file or directory to be re-included
  after exclusion.

- [**Breaking**] It is now an error to include an empty string or all-whitespace
  string in any of these fields:

  - `command`
  - `dependencies`
  - `files`
  - `output`
  - `packageLocks`

- The fingerprint now additionally includes the following fields:

  - The system platform (e.g. `linux`, `win32`).
  - The system CPU architecture (e.g. `x64`).
  - The system Node version (e.g. `16.7.0`).

### Fixed

- Scripts now identify their own package correctly when they are members of npm
  workspaces, and they can be invoked from the root workspace using `-ws`
  commands.

- Give a clearer error message when run with an old npm version.

- When cleaning output, directories will now only be deleted if they are empty.

- When caching output, excluded files will now reliably be skipped. Previously
  they would be copied if the parent directory was also included in the `output`
  glob patterns.

- Symlinks cached to local disk are now restored with verbatim targets, instead
  of resolved targets.

## [0.1.1] - 2022-04-08

### Added

- Added `WIREIT_CACHE` environment variable, which controls caching behavior.
  Can be `local` or `none` to disable.

- Added `if-file-deleted` option to the `clean` settings. In this mode,
  `output` files are deleted if any of the input files have been deleted since
  the last run.

### Changed

- In watch mode, the terminal is now cleared at the start of each run, making it
  easier to distinguish the latest output from previous output.

- In watch mode, a "Watching for file changes" message is now logged at the end
  of each run.

- A "Restored from cache" message is now logged when output was restored from
  cache.

- Caching is now disabled by default when the `CI` environment variable is
  `true`. This variable is automatically set by GitHub Actions and Travis. The
  `WIREIT_CACHE` environment variable takes precedence over this default.

## [0.1.0] - 2022-04-06

### Added

- Limit the number of scripts running at any one time. By default it's 4 \* the
  number of CPU cores. Use the environment variable WIREIT_PARALLEL to override
  this default. Set it to Infinity to go back to unbounded parallelism.

- Added local disk caching. If a script has both its `files` and `output` arrays
  defined, then the `output` files for each run will now be cached inside the
  `.wireit` directory. If a script runs with the same configuration and `files`,
  then the `output` files will be copied from the cache, instead of running the
  script's command.

### Changed

- [**Breaking**] Bumped minimum Node version from `16.0.0` to `16.7.0` in order
  to use `fs.cp`.

### Fixed

- Fixed bug where deleting a file would not trigger a re-run in watch mode.

- Fixed bug which caused `node_modules/` binaries to not be found when crossing
  package boundaries through dependencies.

## [0.0.0] - 2022-04-04

### Added

- Initial release.
